<h1>What kind of systematic review should I conduct? A proposed typology and guidance for systematic reviewers in the medical and health sciences</h1>
<p>The paper presents a comprehensive framework and typology designed to guide researchers in selecting the most appropriate type of systematic review for their specific research questions in the medical and health sciences. Recognizing the pivotal role of systematic reviews in evidence-based healthcare, the paper underscores the necessity of aligning the review type with the research question to optimize the impact and relevance of the evidence generated. This alignment is crucial as it influences the entire healthcare evidence synthesis process, from guideline development to clinical decision-making.</p>
<p>Systematic reviews have evolved significantly, extending beyond traditional effectiveness studies to include a variety of types such as scoping reviews, rapid reviews, full systematic reviews, and mixed-method reviews. Each type is tailored to different research needs and methodologies. For instance, effectiveness reviews often utilize the PICO framework (Population, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome), while experiential reviews, which focus on patient experiences and perspectives, may use the PICo framework (Population, Interest, Context). Other types, such as economic reviews, assess the costs and resource use of interventions, crucial for informing healthcare policy and resource allocation.</p>
<p>The paper elaborates on the importance of a well-defined and focused review question, advocating the use of specific mnemonics like PICO, PIRD (Population, Intervention, Results, Design), and SPIDER (Sample, Phenomenon of Interest, Design, Evaluation, Research type) to enhance the clarity and effectiveness of systematic reviews. It distinguishes systematic reviews from more general literature reviews by emphasizing the need for comprehensive methodologies that include clear objectives, thorough searches, and transparent reporting. This rigorous approach is essential to substantiate evidence-based practices and avoid misleading conclusions, particularly in reviews of animal studies which are increasingly informing translational science and healthcare.</p>
<p>In conclusion, the paper introduces a pioneering typology that serves as a strategic framework for researchers, policymakers, and funders to select the most suitable systematic review approach. This typology not only aids in structuring the review question but also enhances the methodological rigor and relevance of systematic reviews in healthcare. By providing this guidance, the paper contributes significantly to the field of evidence synthesis, ensuring that systematic reviews continue to support effective and informed decision-making in healthcare.</p>