<h1>What kind of systematic review should I conduct? A proposed typology and guidance for systematic reviewers in the medical and health sciences</h1>
<p>Systematic reviews are indispensable in the medical and health sciences, serving as a cornerstone for evidence-based healthcare by synthesizing diverse research findings into actionable insights. The paper at hand introduces a comprehensive typology of systematic reviews, designed to assist both novice and experienced reviewers in selecting the most appropriate review type based on their specific research questions. This typology not only facilitates the effective definition of research questions but also enhances the overall quality and relevance of systematic reviews by ensuring alignment with the available evidence and healthcare needs.</p>
<p>The proposed typology categorizes systematic reviews into ten distinct types, including but not limited to effectiveness reviews, experiential reviews, economic evaluations, and diagnostic test accuracy reviews. Each category is tailored to address specific aspects of healthcare inquiries, such as intervention outcomes, patient experiences, cost-effectiveness, and the accuracy of medical tests. This categorization aids in the meticulous planning of reviews by providing clear guidelines on the objectives and characteristics of each review type, thereby optimizing the evidence synthesis process for clinical guideline development and health policy decision-making.</p>
<p>The methodology of systematic reviews as outlined in the paper emphasizes the importance of well-defined, focused research questions which dictate the inclusion criteria and framework of the review. Utilizing structured methodologies such as PICO for effectiveness reviews and PIRD for diagnostic accuracy reviews, systematic reviews ensure comprehensive searches, rigorous data analysis, and transparent reporting. These practices are crucial for synthesizing high-quality evidence that can inform both research and clinical practice. The paper also highlights the evolution of evidence synthesis, which now includes a variety of review types such as integrative, scoping, and rapid reviews, necessitating a detailed taxonomy to guide reviewers in their method selection.</p>
<p>In conclusion, the paper underscores the critical role of systematic reviews in advancing healthcare by providing a structured approach to evidence synthesis. The introduction of a detailed typology for systematic reviews aids researchers, policymakers, and funders in selecting the most suitable review methods, thereby enhancing the impact of systematic reviews on healthcare policy and practice. This guidance is expected to foster a more systematic approach to evidence generation, transfer, and implementation, ultimately supporting the goals of evidence-based healthcare.</p>